both scenes are flooded in pleasant sunshine she is met with catcalls and jeered from her podium 1916 passes and the film 's tone darkens again the americans arrive , but are shown only in the '' disconnected reality '' of the pavilion , interrupting the deliberations of the british generals by singing '' over there '' with the changed final line : '' and we wo n't come back – we 'll be buried over there ! '' the resolute-looking american captain seizes the map from an astonished haig vincent ball as australian soldier pia colombo as estaminet singer paul daneman as czar nicholas ii isabel dean as sir john french 's lady christian doermer as fritz robert flemyng as staff officer in gassed trench meriel forbes as lady grey frank forsyth as woodrow wilson ian holm as raymond poincaré david lodge as recruiting sergeant joe melia as the photographer guy middleton as sir william robertson juliet mills as nurse nanette newman as nurse cecil parker as sir john natasha parry as sir william robertson 's lady gerald sim as chaplain thorley walters as staff officer in ballroom anthony ainley as third aide michael bates as drunk lance corporal fanny carby as mill girl cecilia darby as sir henry wilson 's lady geoffrey davies as aide edward fox as aide george ghent as heckler peter gilmore as private burgess ben howard as private garbett norman jones as scottish soldier paddy joyce as irish soldier angus lennie as scottish soldier harry locke as heckler clifford mollison as heckler derek newark as shooting gallery proprietor john owens as seamus moore ron pember as corporal at station dorothy reynolds as heckler norman shelley as staff officer in ballroom marianne stone as mill girl john trigger as officer at station kathleen wileman as emma smith at age 4 penelope allen as solo chorus girl maurice arthur as soldier singer freddie ascott as 'whizzbang ' soldier dinny jones as chorus girl carole gray as chorus girl bernard jarvis as the whistling blowing soldier in the trench jane seymour as chorus girl ( uncredited and film debut ) alt url the deighton duffy production company had produced the film adaptation of deighton ’ s only when i larf starring richard attenborough the 1969 film transferred the mise-en-scène completely into the cinematic domain , with elaborate sequences shot at west pier in brighton , elsewhere in brighton and on the south downs , interspersed with motifs from the stage production many of the extras were local people , but a great many were students from the university of sussex , falmer , on the outskirts of the town max arthur ( 2001 ) when this bloody war is over london , piatkus : 47 the first verse and the chorus follow : : up to your waist in water , : up to your eyes in slush – : using the kind of language , : that makes the sergeant blush ; : who would n't join the army ? : that 's what we all inquire , : do n't we pity the poor civilians sitting beside the fire : as soon as reveille is gone : we feel just as heavy as lead , : but we never get up till the sergeant brings : our breakfast up to bed : oh ! oh ! oh ! it 's a lovely war , : what do we want with eggs and ham : when we 've got plum and apple jam ? : form fours ! right turn ! : how shall we spend the money we earn ? : oh ! oh ! oh ! it 's a lovely war firstworldwar.com almost all of the songs featured in the film also appear on the cd41 album series oh ! it 's a lovely war ( four volumes ) vincent canby of the new york times called it '' a big , elaborate , sometimes realistic film whose elephantine physical proportions and often brilliant all-star cast simply overwhelm the material with a surfeit of good intentions '' kevin thomas of the los angeles times wrote : '' what noted british actor richard attenborough , in a dazzling directorial debut , and his principal writers len deighton and brian duffy have done is to transform the highly political and one-dimensional joan littlewood theatre piece into timeless—and painfully timely—tragic allegory as one big production number succeeded the other and one perfectly measured and symmetrical tableau faded into the next , i began to feel stupefied rather than touched '' the film presently has a score of 79 % on rotten tomatoes based on 14 reviews , with an average grade of 8.2 out of 10 the toronto star received complaints from veteran organizations about the advertisement for the film that featured cemetery crosses and later ran the adverts without the image '' sunday times london , england 27 sept bbc radio 4 's 15 minute musical portrayed tony blair 's premiership in the style of oh ! what a lovely war in a september 2006 episode entitled '' oh ! what a lovely blair ''