entropy ( arrow of time ) ) : why does time have a direction ? why did the universe have such low entropy in the past , and time correlates with the universal ( but not local ) increase in entropy , from the past and to the future , according to the second law of thermodynamics ? why are cp violations observed in certain weak force decays , but not elsewhere ? are cp violations somehow a product of the second law of thermodynamics , or are they a separate arrow of time ? are there exceptions to the principle of causality ? is there a single possible past ? is the present moment physically distinct from the past and future , or is it merely an emergent property of consciousness ? what links the quantum arrow of time to the thermodynamic arrow ? interpretation of quantum mechanics : how does the quantum description of reality , which includes elements such as the superposition of states and wavefunction collapse or quantum decoherence , give rise to the reality we perceive ? another way of stating this question regards the measurement problem : what constitutes a '' measurement '' which apparently causes the wave function to collapse into a definite state ? unlike classical physical processes , some quantum mechanical processes ( such as quantum teleportation arising from quantum entanglement ) can not be simultaneously '' local '' , '' causal '' , and '' real '' , but it is not obvious which of these properties must be sacrificed , or if an attempt to describe quantum mechanical processes in these senses is a category error such that a proper understanding of quantum mechanics would render the question meaningless m , cosmic coincidences : dark matter , mankind , and anthropic cosmology p cosmology and general relativity ) cosmological constant problem : why does the zero-point energy of the vacuum not cause a large cosmological constant ? what cancels it out ? dark matter : what is the identity of dark matter ? is it a particle ? is it the lightest superpartner ( lsp ) ? or , do the galaxy rotation curve point not to some form of matter but actually to an extension of gravity ? dark energy : what is the cause of the observed accelerated expansion ( de sitter phase ) of the universe ? why is the energy density of the dark energy component of the same magnitude as the density of matter at present when the two evolve quite differently over time ; could it be simply that we are observing at exactly the right time ? is dark energy a pure cosmological constant or are models of quintessence such as phantom energy applicable ? dark flow : is a non-spherically symmetric gravitational pull from outside the observable universe responsible for some of the observed motion of large objects such as galactic clusters in the universe ? axis of evil : some large features of the microwave sky at distances of over 13 billion light years appear to be aligned with both the motion and orientation of the solar system the cosmic inflation hypothesis suggests that the shape of the universe may be unmeasurable , but , since 2003 , jean-pierre luminet , et al stephen battersby ( 21 june 2011 ) why are these scales so different from each other ? what prevents quantities at the electroweak scale , such as the higgs boson mass , from getting renormalization on the order of the planck scale ? is the solution supersymmetry , extra dimensions , or just anthropic fine-tuning ? planck particle : the planck mass plays an important role in parts of mathematical physics proceedings of the royal society a 133 , 60 ( 1931 ) neutron lifetime puzzle : while the neutron lifetime has been studied for decades , there currently exists a lack of consilience on its exact value , due to different results from two experimental methods ( '' bottle '' versus '' beam '' ) koide formula : an aspect of the generation ( particle physics ) there are several other observations revealing large-scale anisotropy high-temperature superconductors : what is the mechanism that causes certain materials to exhibit superconductivity at temperatures much higher than around 25 kelvins ? is it possible to make a material that is a superconductor at room temperature and atmospheric pressure ? amorphous solids : what is the nature of the glass transition between a fluid or regular solid and a glassy phase ? what are the physical processes giving rise to the general properties of glasses and the glass transition ? cryogenic electron emission : why does the electron emission in the absence of light increase as the temperature of a photomultiplier is decreased ? cryogenic electron emission phenomenon has no known physics explanation retrieved on 20 october 2011 ramamoorthy , springer 2007 , chapter 8